---
title:  "VarAnn Minutes 2018-04-25"
date: 2018-01-29
layout: default
category:
  - variant_annotation_minutes
---

### Variant Representation 
##### Chairs: Matt Brush, Javier Lopez
##### Attendees “Name (Affiliation)”: Steven Hart (Mayo Clinic) Raymond Dalgleish (University of Leicester), Bashir Sadjad (Google), Daniel Roche (Illumina), Zhenyu Zhang (UChicago/GDC), Melissa Cline (UCSC), Elliot Margulies, Larry Babb, Pauline Fujita, Antonio Rueda, Chris Bizon,  Keith Elliston, Sarah Hunt

##### Minutes:
Matt: Update with Clin/Pheno: We presented our recent work to them, need to still hear about their work from them.  The AGHA team is very interested and would like to contribute and join the calls.  We are going to have a once/month call that will be at a more Australian friendly time.  They added some examples to add to the document.

Melissa C: BRCA exchange examples: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbW2ts7qX3ONJNj22BlcW4KqfxcPdLsUcnlua4SSZCc/edit#heading=h.7k2gk04sy46r

Example 1: Important because there are a lot of individuals searching for their own variants.  This allows people to compare old protein level data with new genomics level data.

Example 3: Annotation is that there was a change in the annotation data.

Matt: Example 1 & 2 might be more Variant Rep?

Chris: Yes.  Being able to recognize the difference between different views on alleles is what var rep is doing now.

Javier: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WbW2ts7qX3ONJNj22BlcW4KqfxcPdLsUcnlua4SSZCc/edit#heading=h.buq3s0oygydj 
- GeL Example 4: a lot of metadata, the rest of the data that we are showing, we are not considering it for doing our classifications.
- Example 8: Cytoband metadata
- Example 9 has to do with expression levels of different genes in different regarding variants
- Example 10: Reporting interaction between drugs and genes/variants
- Example 11: Reporting interactions between phenotypes and genes

Raymond: Are the data being generated by cellbase and reinterpreting them?

Javier: Cellbase is mainly an importer of data.  Integrated data is annotated.

Raymond: Seeing Uniprot, not ensmbl IDs and no annotation version. 

Javier: We are aware and plan to fix this.

Matt: With respect to those last few examples where genes are affected by a certain variant.  Those are important types of information that can be used for pathogenicity and clinical actionability.  We recognize this.

Raymond: Cellbase uses the term gene name which is different from gene symbol.  Both gene name and gene symbol can change over time.

Javier: I agree and that should be changed.  This is imported from Ensmbl

Antonio’s presentation: [Slides](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B09Q6AWnrBnSWGxRUXZPZHdzenNIMWpWRThXNlhWWnFhRWhj/view?usp=sharing)

Matt: The interpretation box describes variant prioritization for a particular patient - filtering variants and interpreting their  pathogenicity. The working truth (WT) keeps the granular data for all patients who have gone through the pipeline. Golden truth (GT) is certain things have enough support to be well supported facts. G/P databases are external sources of knowledge (e.g. ClinVar, CellBase)

Antonio: Yes, and the distinction between WT and GT is  conceptual - all of this data is  in same database (Clinical Variant Ark) 

Matt: Is there a particular interpretation guideline, like the ACMG guidelines?

Antonio: Yes, they need to comply with the guidelines.  The basic guidelines are supported by companies if they want to use our system.  Up to clinicians if they want to use the interpretation guidelines

Raymond: How do you output the variant descriptions, how do you map your variants onto the reference sequences that are required for acmg guidelines.

Antonio: we don’t do that.  We provide ensembl transcript using cellbase and that’s it.  The clinical report is made by the clinician.  We are discussing if we’ll include refseq output in the future.

Matt: I’d like to know more about your evidence modeling, maybe have this discussion on a separate call? [ACTION]
